♪♪
>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
JUNE 29th, THE PRESIDENT
PROPOSES A $2 BILLION AID BILL
TO HANDLE THE RECENT SURGE I
ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION.
>>> IN OUR "SIGNATURE" SEGMENT
RAP MUSIC LYRICS PLAYING A
INCREASINGLY PROMINENT ROLE IN
CRIMINAL CASES ACROSS TH
COUNTRY.
>> I CAN TELL YOU IT'S IN TH
HUNDREDS
>> HUNDREDS OF INSTANCES
>> HUNDREDS OF INSTANCES WHERE
LYRIC ARE BEING USED AT SOME
POINT IN THE CRIMINAL JUSTIC
PROCESS.
>>> AND WHAT HOSPITALS AND
DOCTORS KNOW ABOUT YOU THAT YO
HAVEN'T TOLD THEM.
NEXT ON PBS "NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISH/WNET STUDIOS I
NEW YORK
>>> THANKS FOR JOINING US.
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS EXPECTED TO
ASK CONGRESS TOMORROW FOR AN
EMERGENCY APPROPRIATION OF $
BILLION TO HELP THE NATION DEA
WITH A RECENT SURGE OF ILLEGAL
IMMIGRATION.
SINCE LAST OCTOBER, MORE THA
50,000 UNACCOMPANIED MINOR
MOSTLY FROM CENTRAL AMERICA HAVE
BEEN APPREHENDED AFTER CROSSIN
INTO THE U.S. ALONG THE TEXA
BORDER WITH MEXICO
THE PRESIDENT SPOKE ABOUT TH
ISSUE DURING AN INTERVIEW THAT
AIRED THIS MORNING ON ABC.
>> WE HAVE TO HOUSE THESE KIDS
AND TAKE CARE OF THEM UNTIL TH
MACHINERY UNDER CURRENT LA
ALLOWS US TO SEND THEM BACK.
>> THE PRESIDENT ALSO IS
EXPECTED TO ASK CONGRESS T
GRANT THE HOMELAND SECURIT
DEPARTMENT NEW POWERS TO FAS
TRACK THE SCREENING AN
DEPORTATION OF MINORS ENTERING
THE COUNTRY ILLEGALLY.
DURING THAT SAME INTERVIEW, TH
PRESIDENT ALSO TALKED ABOUT HO
THE MOVEMENT OF TERRORIS
SYMPATHIZERS BETWEEN EUROPE AN
THE MIDDLE EAST RAISES THE
TERROR THREAT HERE
>> WE'VE SEEN EUROPEANS WHO AR
SYMPATHETIC TO THEIR CAUSE
TRAVELING INTO SYRIA AND NOW MAY
TRAVEL INTO IRAQ, GETTING BATTLE
HARDENED
THEN THEY COME BACK, THEY'VE GOT
EUROPEAN PASSPORTS, THEY DON'T
NEED A VISA TO GET INTO TH
UNITED STATES.
>> ON THAT REPUBLICAN, NEW YOR
CONGRESSMAN PETER KING WEN
FURTHER.
>> NOT ONLY ARE THERE THOUSAND
OF EUROPEANS WHO HAVE VISAS SENT
TO THE UNITED STATES GOING T
SYRIA, THERE'S ALSO AT LEAST
100-PLUS AMERICANS WHO ARE OVE
THERE IN SYRIA RIGHT NOW
SO ANY OF THESE PEOPLE CAN G
BACK TO THE UNITED STATES AN
CAN CARRY OUT THE TYPE OF ATTACK
THAT THEY'VE BEEN TRAINED IN I
SYRIA.
>> IN IRAQ TODAY THE
GOVERNMENT'S EFFORTS T
RECAPTURE NORTHERN CITIE
RECENTLY SEIZED BY ISLAMIC
EXTREMISTS REPORTEDLY HA
STALLED.
IRAQI GOVERNMENT TROOPS USIN
TANKS AND HELICOPTERS TRIED TO
MOVE IN TO TIKRIT ABOUT 90 MILES
NORTH OF BAGHDAD
BUT THE COUNTEROFFENSIVE WAS
HALTED, AND GOVERNMENT TROOP
REPORTEDLY RETREATED AFTER WHA
WAS DESCRIBED AS HEAVY FIGHTIN
WITH MILITANTS FROM THE ISLAMI
STATE OF IRAQ.
THE GOVERNMENT PLACED IMPROVISED
EXPLOSIVE DEVICES ON THE ROAD TO
SLOW THE GOVERNMENT ADVANCE.
THIS WEEKEND, RUSSIA DELIVERED
FIVE FIGHTER JETS TO THE
GOVERNMENT IN BAGHDAD IN A
EFFORT TO TURN BACK TH
EXTREMISTS
>>> UNEASINESS IN IRAQ HAS
LIFTED OIL PRICES HERE AT HOME
AND THAT MEANS HIGHER GAS PRICES
FOR THE UPCOMING JULY 4t
HOLIDAY WEEKEND.
A GALLON OF REGULAR GAS IS
EXPECTED TO AVERAGE $3.68.
THE HIGHEST IT'S BEEN OVER THE
JULY 4th WEEKEND IN SIX YEARS.
BACK IN 2008, IT WAS
CONSIDERABLY HIGHER, $4.11
>>> FAMILY MEMBERS OF 19 ELITE
FIREFIGHTERS KILLED A YEAR AGO
DURING A WILDFIRE IN ARIZONA
HAVE DECIDED NOT TO ATTEND A
PUBLIC COMMEMORATION TOMORROW.
JUST DAYS AGO, FAMILIES OF 12 OF
THOSE KILLED FILED A WRONGFU
DEATH LAWSUIT AGAINST THE STAT
ALLEGING NEGLIGENCE IN FIGHTIN
THE BLAZE.
A WILDFIRE CURRENTLY BURNING I
EASTERN ARIZONA HAS SCORCHED
NEARLY EIGHT SQUARE MILES.
COMMUNITIES IN THE AREA REMAIN
UNDER AN EVACUATION ORDER, AND
WHILE THE FIRE HASN'T GROWN,
OFFICIALS SAY THEY HAVE YET TO
GET THE BLAZE UNDER CONTROL.
>>> THERE MIGHT BE A NEW
TREATMENT OPTION FOR THE MOR
THAN 21 MILLION TYPE ONE AND
TYPE TWO DIABETES PATIENTS I
THE U.S.
-- FRIDAY THE FDA APPROVED A
WHISTLE-SIZED INHALER CALLED
AFREZZA.
THE INHALABLE DRUG ACTS MORE
QUICKLY THAN INJECTABLE INSULI
BUT WILL CARRY A WARNING FOR
PEOPLE ALSO SUFFERING FROM
CHRONIC LUNG CONDITIONS LIKE
ASTHMA BECAUSE OF POTENTIA
ADVERSE EFFECTS LIKE BREATHING
PROBLEMS
THE FDA SAYS THAT MANUFACTURER
MUST STILL TEST FOR AFREZZA'
OF LUNG CANCER
THERE IS NO DATE YET ON WHEN THE
DRUG MAY BE AVAILABLE.
>>> IT'S GAY PRIDE WEEKEND, AN
THERE WERE PARADES AROUND TH
WORLD TODAY.
THIS OF THE SCENE IN NEW YOR
WHERE AN ESTIMATED MILLION
PEOPLE TURNED OUT.
IT'S ALSO THE 45th ANNIVERSARY
OF THE STONEWALL RIOT IN
GREENWICH VILLAGE.
THE EVENT SEEN AS TRIGGERING GAY
RIGHTS MOVEMENT.
>>> A SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERY O
A NEW MAMMAL SPECIES
THE CREATURE WHICH LIVES IN TH
DESERT OF NAMIBIA IN SOUTHWEST
AFRICA LOOKS SOMETHING LIKE
MOUSE WITH A LONG NOSE AND
WEIGHS A SINGLE OUNCE.
IT IS ACTUALLY GENETICALLY
LINKED TO ELEPHANTS.
BIOLOGISTS WHO DISCOVERED IT ARE
PLANNING TO PLACE MINIATUR
RADIO COLLARS ON THE ANIMALS T
STUDY THEIR HABITS
>>> AND A CORRECTION -- LAST
WEEK WE MISTAKENLY REPORTED THAT
GEORGE ZIMMERMAN HAD USED IN'S
STAND YOUR GROUND LAW AS THE
BASIS FOR HIS DEFENSE DURING HIS
TRIAL FOR SHOOTING TRAYVON
MARTIN
STAND YOUR GROUND OF NOT USED BY
ZIMMERMAN'S DEFENSE.
WE REGRET THE ERROR.
>>> THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION HAS
DECIDED TO TRY THE MAN ACCUSED
OF ORCHESTRATING THE 2012 TERROR
ATTACK IN BENGHAZI, LIBYA, I
THE NATION'S CAPITAL
THAT ATTACK LEFT FOUR AMERICAN
DEAD INCLUDING AMBASSADOR CHRI
STEVENS.
WE'RE JOINED NOW FROM WASHINGTON
BY MICHAEL SCHMIDT OF THE NE
YORK TIMES
SO THIS IS PRETTY UNUSUAL FO
SEVERAL REASONS.
LET'S JUST TALK FIRST OFF HAVING
THE VENUE IN D.C
THERE'S ALREADY SOME PUSHBACK.
THIS IS A VERY EXPENSIVE
PROPOSITION.
>> YEAH.
TYPICALLY IN THE PAST SINCE POST
9/11, THESE TERROR TRIALS HAVE
BEEN IN NEW YORK OR IN
ALEXANDRIA, VIRGINIA
THERE'S A REAL ADVANTAGE T
HAVING THEM IN NEW YORK BECAUS
THE JAIL IS ACTUALLY CONNECTED
TO THE COURTHOUSE BY A TUNNEL SO
YOU DON'T HAVE TO MOVE THE
SUSPECT EVERY TIME ON A -- IN
CAR THAT HE HAS TO APPEAR IN
COURT.
WE SAW THIS YESTERDAY WHEN THE
HEARING WAS OVER, A BI
MOTORCADE CAME FLYING RIGHT OU
OF THE COURTHOUSE, THE STREETS
BLASTING, THIS WERE MEN IN
BULLETPROOF VESTS AND MACHIN
GUNS ON THE STREET
SO THAT IS SOMETHING WE'LL
PROBABLY SEE EVERY DAY THAT THAT
SUSPECT HAS TO BE MOVED BACK AND
FORTH HERE
>> ALL RIGHT
WHAT ABOUT THE EVIDENCE IN THE
CASE
THE FBI WASN'T ABLE TO GET T
THE CRIME SCENE SO TO SPEAK FO
WEEKS.
>> YEAH.
THIS IS AN INTERESTING CASE.
THIS IS NOT JUST A MURDER THAT
HAPPENED AND THE POLICE CAME OUT
AND THEY PUT UP THE TAPE AND
THEY WENT AND DID THEIR EVIDENCE
COLLECTION AND THEN WENT BAC
AND INDICTED IT N FRONT OF A
GRAND JURY
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT HAPPENE
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE WORLD
INVESTIGATORS WEREN'T ABLE T
GET IN TO THE CRIME SCENE UNTI
SEVERAL WEEKS AFTER IT ACTUALL
OCCURRED
THIS WAS AFTER MEMBERS OF TH
MEDIA HAD GONE IN, AFTER MILITIA
MEMBERS HAD -- COULD GO BACK AND
GO THROUGH WHATEVER DOCUMENT
WERE STILL AT THE U.S. MISSION
THERE.
SO THIS HAS NOT BEEN IDEAL FRO
THE BEGINNING.
ON TOP OF THAT, THE CASE WIL
RELY IN PART ON WITNESSES FROM
-- FROM LIBYA WHO WILL HAVE TO
COME OVER AND TESTIFY AND WILL
HAVE TO STAND UP T
CROSS-EXAMINATION IN THE COURT
HERE
SO THIS IS NOT YOUR AVERAG
CASE
>> YOUR REPORTING SAYS THAT HE
WAS COOPERATIVE UNDE
INTERROGATION ON A U.S. WARSHI
BEFORE HE GOT HERE
YET HE HAS PLED NOT GUILTY
WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT THE TYPE
OF INTELLIGENCE THAT HE SHARED
>> WELL, THERE'S A DIFFERENC
BETWEEN GIVING UP EVERYTHING
ABOUT WHAT HIS ROLE MAY HAVE
BEEN AND BEING COOPERATIVE WIT
THEM ABOUT, SAY, WHAT TH
SECURITY SITUATION IN LIBY
LIKE
WHAT HE KNOWS ABOUT PAST O
PRIOR PLANNED ATTACKS, OR SORT
OF THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE -- WHA
TIES AL QAEDA MAY HAVE TO GROUPS
IN THAT PART OF THE COUNTRY.
SO COOPERATIVE DOESN'T
NECESSARILY MEAN THAT HE GAVE UP
ALL OF THIS STUFF ABOUT TH
ATTACK
IT MAY HAVE BEEN ABOUT OTHERS'
ROLES IN THE ATTACKS AND SUCH.
SO WE KNOW THAT HE'S BEE
COOPERATIVE, BUT BEYOND THAT W
DON'T HAVE A TON
>> AND WHAT'S THE TIMELINE
EXPECTED FOR THIS TRIAL?
>> WELL, WE KNOW THAT HE'LL BE
-- HE HAS TWO APPEARANCE
SCHEDULED COMING UP.
ONE ON WEDNESDAY AND A FEW DAY
AFTER THAT THE FOLLOWING WEEK.
WHO KNOWS, THIS COULD BE
SOMETHING THAT GOES ON FOR A
VERY LONG TIME
HE'S ONLY BEEN INDICTED ON ONE
COUNT.
THAT'S SORT OF A PLACEHOLDER
AND THE GOVERNMENT'S EXPECTED TO
INDICT HIM ON SEVERAL MORE GOING
FORWARD AS HE GOES FORWARD WIT
THE CASE
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT COULD G
ON FOR MANY, MANY YEARS.
>> MICHAEL SCHMIDT OF THE NE
YORK TIMES FROM WASHINGTON
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>>> NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE STORY
TONIGHT WE LOOK AT A
CONTROVERSIAL NEW TOOL IN TH
PROSECUTION OF CRIME
THE GROWING USE OF RAP LYRICS TO
HELP ESTABLISH MOTIVE OR INTENT,
OR EVEN TO FIND WORDS THAT MIGHT
BE INTERPRETED AS A CONFESSION
CRITICS SAY THE PRACTICE I
MISGUIDED AND UNDERMINES A
DEFENDANT'S CHANCE TO GET A FAIR
TRIAL.
WE HAVE THE INVESTIGATION.
>> Reporter: SEVEN YEARS AGO
MIDDLE OF THE DAY IN NEWPORT
NEWS, VIRGINIA, SOMEONE STARTS
SHOOTING
>> 911
>> THREE SHOTS, HE SHOT THIS
BOY.
>> WHEN LOCAL POLICE ARRIVED A
THE SCENE, THEY FOUND TWO YOUN
VICTIMS.
A 20-YEAR-OLD WAS LAYING NEA
DEATH ON THE FRONT PORCH
HE'D DIE LATER AT THE HOSPITAL
A 16-YEAR-OLD WAS ALREADY DEAD
BEHIND THE HOUSE FACEDOWN IN THE
GRASS.
POLICE COULDN'T FIND ANY LEAD.
NO WITNESSES, NO WEAPON.
SO A DOUBLE MURDER INVESTIGATION
WENT NOWHERE
BUT FOUR YEARS LATER, A NE
DETECTIVE NAMED CARLOS NUNEZ WAS
ASSIGNED TO THE CASE
HE GOT A TIP THAT A LOCAL RAPPER
NAMED ANTWAN STEWART, SEEN I
THIS VIDEO, WAS THE SHOOTER AN
THAT STEWARD WHO USES THE STAG
NAME TWAN GOTTI HAD WRITTEN
RAP SONG BRAGGING ABOUT TH
MURDER
AT THE TIME, STEWARD WAS A
UP-AND-COMING RAPPER WITH
CHARGE FOR GUN POSSESSION.
HE SANG WHAT SOME CALL GANGSTA
RAP.
FOCUSING ON VIOLENCE, DRUG
DEALING, AND GANG LIFE
ONE SONG CAUGHT THE DETECTIVE'
EYE.
WHEN NUNEZ HEARD IT, HE BELIEVED
STEWARD WAS BRAGGING ABOUT THE
MURDER
LISTEN -
♪ EVERYBODY SAW [ BLEEP ]
NOBODY SAW WHEN [ BLEEP ] ♪
♪ I POKED HIM
.357 ♪
>> Reporter: SOME OF THE DETAILS
MATCH, THE SHOOTING HAPPENED O
A PORCH, NO WITNESSE
IMMEDIATELY CAME FORWARD
OTHERS DON'T -- TIME OF DAY IS
WRONG, THERE WASN'T A STABBING
THE CALIBER OF THE GUN IS WRONG,
AND THERE'S ONLY ONE VICTI
MENTIONED, NOT TWO
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY, IS THI
EVIDENCE OF ANYTHING
IS IT JUST A SONG, OR IS IT
CONFESSION
BASED LARGELY ON THAT RAP AND ON
THE ACCOUNTS OF TWO WITNESSE
GIVEN YEARS AFTER THE SHOOTING
THE RAPPER WAS ARRESTED AN
CHARGED WITH DOUBLE MURDER
STEWARD CLAIMS HE'S INNOCENT
HE'S BEEN IN JAIL SINCE THE TIME
OF HIS ARREST.
DURING HIS INITIAL
INTERROGATION, THE DETECTIVE
ZEROED IN ON STEWARD'S RAP
LYRICS
>> RAP SONG THAT YOU SANG WA
BACK THEN -- EVERYBODY WAS
CHOKING AND NOBODY WAS SMOKING
>> WHAT HAS THAT GOT TO DO WIT
ANY [ BLEEP ] --
>> AND OFF THE PORCH, .357 -
>> WHAT THAT'S GOT TO DO WIT
ANYTHING -
>> THE MURDER, TALKED ABOUT TH
MURDER
>> WHEN I WAS IN INTERROGATION
THAT'S THE FIRST THING HE THRE
AT ME.
THE DETECTIVE THREW THAT AT ME
SAYING YOU KNOW I GOT EVERY SONG
YOU EVER MADE.
BUT I AIN'T KNOW NOTHING HE WA
TALKING ABOUT.
>> SO YOU HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH
THE KILLING OF THOSE TWO MEN
>> NOTHING AT ALL.
I DON'T KNOW NOTHING ABOUT IT.
>> Reporter: JAMES ELLISON I
STEWARD'S LAWYER
>> IT SEEMS LIKE THE RAP LYRIC
SORT OF FORMED THE BASIS A
THEIR INVESTIGATORY TOOL AS TO
WHY THEY STARTED THINKING THAT
MAYBE IT WAS ANTWAN STEWARD THAT
HAD COMMITTED THESE -- THI
DOUBLE MURDER.
>> Reporter: THOUGH THE LYRICS
WERE CENTRAL IN BUILDING THI
CASE, THEY WERE CITED IN A
AFFIDAVIT, IN THE INTERROGATION,
AND PRETRIAL HEARING, TH
PROSECUTOR ULTIMATELY DECIDE
NOT TO PLAY THEM FOR THE JUROR
IN MANY OTHER CASES, NATIONWIDE,
RAP LYRICS ARE PLAYING A
INCREASINGLY PROMINENT ROLE IN
CRIMINAL CASES
>> WHEN SOMETHING OCCURS IN THAT
VIDEO, AND THAT RAP MATCHES TH
CRIME, IT'S GOING TO BE REAL
HARD IN A CRIMINAL COURT TO TR
TO ATTEMPT ON BEHALF OF TH
DEFENSE TO SECLUDE IT.
>> Reporter: DAVID LEBAN IS
FORMER GANG PROSECUTOR
HE'S NOW THE CEO OF TH
ASSOCIATION OF PROSECUTING
ATTORNEYS.
>> ON BEHALF OF PROSECUTORS, I
IT'S MATCHING, THAT WOULD VERY
MUCH BE ANOTHER PIECE OF
EVIDENCE THAT WE WOULD LIKE TO
ADMIT IN THE CASE BECAUSE WE
THINK IT IS RELEVANT
>> I CAN TELL YOU THAT IT'S IN
THE HUNDREDS
>> HUNDREDS OF INSTANCES
>> HUNDREDS OF INSTANCES WHERE
RAP LYRICS ARE BEING USED AT
SOME POINT IN THE CRIMINAL
JUSTICE PROCESS.
>> ERIC NIELSEN OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND IS
SCHOLAR OF RAP AND A STRON
CRITIC OF ITS USE IN CRIMINA
PROCEEDINGS.
HE SAYS IT TOO OFTEN MISTAKES
MUSICAL ART FORM FOR EVIDENCE OF
CRIMINAL BEHAVIOR.
>> I MEAN, WHAT PROSECUTORS HAVE
FOUND IS THAT WHEN THEY COUL
INTRODUCE RAP LYRICS A
EVIDENCE, PARTICULARLY I
SITUATIONS WHERE THEY DON'T HAVE
STRONG EVIDENCE OTHEROTHERWISE,
THEY
ARE STILL ABLE TO SECURE
CONVICTIONS.
>> NO ONE TRACKS EXACTLY HOW
OFTEN RAP HERE RICK USED T
SECURE CONVICTIONS IN COURT.
JUST AS KNOW ONE KEEPS TRACK O
HOW OFTEN THEY'RE USED TO SECURE
PLEA BARGAINS BEFORE TRIAL
THERE ARE NO HARD AND FAST RULES
ABOUT USING THEM IN COURT.
A JUDGE HAS TO WEIGH A LYRIC'S
RELEVANCE VERSUS UNFAIRL
PREJUDICING THE JURY
THERE ARE SOME CASES LIKE THIS
WHERE THE CORRELATION BETWEEN
RAP AND CRIME IS CLEAR
IN 2003, GREEN BRUTALLY KILLED
HIS WOOF AND RAPPED SPECIFICALLY
ABOUT COMMITTING -- HIS WIFE AND
RAPPED SPECIFICALLY ABOU
COMMITTING THE MURDER.
THE LYRICS WERE PRESENTED AT
TRIAL, AND HE WAS SENTENCED TO
LIFE IN PRISON
♪♪
>> OTHER CASES AREN'T AS
CLEARCUT
>> THREE SPECIFIC WORDS ARE WHAT
PROSECUTORS HOPE WILL LINK HIM
TO THE ALLEGED KILLING -
>> TWO YEARS AGO IN LOUISIANA, A
RAPPER NAMED TERRENCE HATCH WA
TRIED FOR FIRST-DEGREE MURDER.
PROSECUTORS ARGUED THAT A FE
CRYPTIC WORDS OF ONE RAP SON
WERE IN FACT A CONFESSION.
HATCH WAS FOUND NOT GUILTY
ONE OF THE MOST CONTROVERSIA
USES OF RAP LYRIC IN A TRIAL WAS
THE CASE OF VANTE SKINNER.
SKINNER WAS CONVICTED IN 2008 OF
SHOOTING A FELLOW DRUG DEALE
OUTSIDE HIS NEW JERSEY HOUSE
DURING HIS TRIAL, PROSECUTOR
READ 13 PAGE OF SKINNER'
VIOLENT, GRAPHIC RAP LYRICS.
THESER LYRICS THAT HAD BEEN --
THESE WERE LYRICS THAT HAD BEE
WRITTEN MONTHS TO YEARS BEFORE
THE SHOOTING
PROSECUTORS READ THEM TO SHO
SKINNER'S ALLEGED PROPENSITY T
VIOLENCE
AN APPLE CAT COURT RULED THE
EXTENSIVE READINGS UNFAIRL
PREJUDICED THE JURY.
STATE SUPREME COURT IS WEIGHIN
WHETHER SKINNER DESERVES A NEW
TRIAL.
TO CRITICS LIKE ERIC NIELSEN
PROSECUTORS RARELY IF EVER
SHOULD USE RAP AS EVIDENCE I
COURT.
HE SAYS IT'S AN ART FORM THA
INTENTIONALLY USES ELABORATE
WORD PLAY AND EXAGGERATION
AND WHILE IT MAY OFTEN CONTAIN
GRAPHIC VIOLENCE, NIELSEN ARGUES
THAT'S A REFLECTION OF THE
COMMUNITIES WHERE MANY YOUNG
BLACK MEN LIVE
HE SAYS RAPPERS ARE CREATING
CHARACTERS, NOT WRITING DIARIES.
>> THAT IS THE MOST IMPORTAN
DISTINCTION THAT CONSTANTLY GETS
MISSED IS THAT THERE IS AN
AUTHOR AND A NARRATOR.
WE SEEM TO BE ABLE TO GRASP TH
CONCEPT WITH EVERY OTHER ART
FORM THAT USES THE FIRST-PERSO
NARRATIVE.
BUT RAPPERS WHO GO THE EXTRA
MILE TO SIGNAL THAT THEY ARE
INVENTING A NARRATOR WITH THEI
USE OF A STAGE NAME, WE STIL
REVERT BACK TO THIS IDEA THA
THEY'RE THE SAME, THAT W
CONFLATE THE TWO
>> YOU DON'T BUY INTO TH
ARGUMENT THAT THIS IS AL
FICTION.
YOU BELIEVE IF THEY ARE
RAPPING ABOUT A VIOLENT,
CRIME-RIDDEN LIFE, THAT THAT
DOES TELL YOU ABOUT THE ARTIST
THEMSELVES
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I WOULD SAY YOU CAN'T HAVE I
BOTH WAYS.
AND I'D SAY THAT I'M RAPPING
ABOUT STUFF BECAUSE THIS IS WHAT
I LIVE IN, AND THIS IS WHAT
SEE EVERY DAY.
AND THEN COME IN TO COURT AN
SAY EVERYTHING THAT I SAID I
THE RAP IS COMPLETELY UNTRUE
>> SO IF THAT SONG IS A MADE-U
STORY, WHY DO YOU WRITE A STOR
LIKE THAT?
WHY ARE YOU TELLING THE STORY?
>> THAT'S MY LANE, I'M IN TH
LANE FOR -- THAT'S WHAT IT IS.
I GOT TO KEEP BUILDING MY BRAN
UNTIL I GET TO BE WHERE I WANT
TO BE.
I FOUND SOMETHING THAT I'M
TALENTED AT, AND FOUND A WAY T
MAKE MONEY OFF OF.
>> ANTWAN STEWARD SAYS LIKE IT
OVER NOT RAP SELLS
IN THE VIOLENT, GANG-RIDDE
STREETS WHERE HE GREW UP, IT
GAVE HIM PLENTY TO RAP ABOUT
>> EVERYDAY LIFE WHERE I'M FROM,
IT JUST GUESS ON
LIKE YOU WALK DOWN THE STREET,
YOU MIGHT SEE A NEEDLE THAT WA
USED FOR DOPE LAYING ON TH
GROUND
KNOW WHAT I MEAN
YOU GREW UP IN THAT ENVIRONMEN
YOUR WHOLE LIFE, IT'S THAN HARD,
IT COMES NATURALLY
>> I THINK IT BECOMES EVEN
EASIER TO SORT OF NEGATE RAP A
ART WHEN THE RAP ITSELF IS
PROJECTING STEREOTYPES O
CRIMINALITY ABOUT PARTICULARLY
YOUNG BLACK MEN IN THE UNITE
STATES
AND SO I THINK PROSECUTORS HAV
A VERY POWERFUL TACTIC, AND ON
OF THE THINGS MOST POWERFU
ABOUT IT IS THAT IT ALLOWS THE
TO PLAY UPON BUT UNFORTUNATELY
ALSO PERPETUATE THOSE ENDURING
STEREOTYPES.
>> WHAT ABOUT THE ARGUMENT THA
THE CONTENT OF SOME KINDS OF RAP
MUSIC IS SO VIOLENT THAT IF YO
NAUGHT IN FRONT OF A JURY, THA
IF THE PROSECUTION SAYS THIS GUY
RAPS LIKE THIS, AND WE THINK
HE'S GUILTY OF X, THAT THE JUR
WILL BELIEVE ANYTHING?
>> I DON'T THINK THAT MATCHE
REALITY OF WHAT HAPPENS IN A
COURTROOM.
WE MUST GET A UNANIMOUS JURY
BEYOND A REASONABLE DOUBT.
AND PLAYING A RAP IS NOT GOING
TO CONVICT SOMEBODY.
IF IT WAS, THEN YOU'D HAVE RAP
BEING PLAYED EVERY DAY, AND WE
WOULDN'T NEED TO WORRY ABOUT
PRODUCING OTHER EVIDENCE
>> ANTWAN STEWARD'S DOUBLE
MURDER TRIAL LASTED THREE DAYS
WITH NO MENTION OF ITS LYRICS BY
THE PROSECUTION, THE CASE HUNG
ON THE TWO EYEWITNESSES WH
IDENTIFIED HIM FOUR YEARS AFTE
THE FATAL SHOOTINGS.
THE JURY FOUND STEWARD NOT
GUILTY OF EITHER MURDER BU
GUILTY ON A RELATED WEAPON
CHARGE
HE'LL BE SENTENCED LATER THI
MONTH.
IN THE MEANTIME, STEWARD SAY
HIS ARREST AND THE PUBLICITY
AROUND IT HAS DRIVEN U
DOWNLOADS AND YOUTUBE VIEWS OF
HIS SONGS.
>>> HEAR FROM THE BROTHER OF A
MAN WHO WAS BROUGHT TO TRIAL I
PART BECAUSE OF RAP LYRICS H
WROTE.
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> A STORY PUBLISHED A FEW DAYS
AGO CAUGHT OUR ATTENTION AND
DESCRIBED HOW HOSPITALS BU
INFORMATION ABOUT YOU TO
DETERMINE HOW LIKELY YOU ARE T
GET SICK AND WHAT IT WILL COST
TO TREAT YOU
WE'RE JOINED PIE ONE OF TH
CO-AUTHORS OF BLOOMBERG NEWS
WHAT ARE THEY BUYING AND WHO ARE
THEY BUYING IT FROM?
>> THEY'RE BUYING THE SAME DAT
THAT RETAILERS HAVE BEEN USING
FOR YEARS TO TARGET PRODUCTS A
U. WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT IS
INFORMATION THAT'S COLLECTED B
COMPANIES CALLED DATA BROKER
WHICH CONTRACT EVERY TRANSACTION
THE CONSUMER -- WHICH CAN TRAC
EVERY TRANSACTION THE CONSUMER
MAKES WITH A LOYALTY CARD, THE
CAN FIND OUT HOW MUCH YOUR HOM
IS WORTH, CHA KIND OF CAR YO
OWN, WHETHER YOU LIKE ROCK
CLIMBING OR HIKING BASED OFF O
PUBLIC DATA BASES OR WEB
BROWSING HISTORY
FOR YEARS RETAILERS HAVE USED IT
TO SEND A COUPON OR FIND OUT WHO
WANTS TO SUBSCRIBE IT TO THEIR
LIST OR PRODUCT.
NOW HOSPITALS ARE SAYING CAN W
USE THIS DATA, THIS INFORMATIO
TO PREDICT WHO'S GOING TO GE
SICK AND WHO'S GOING TO END UP
AT THE EMERGENCY ROOM.
>> SO WHY ARE HOSPITAL
INTERESTED IN HAVING THIS KIND
OF INFORMATION
>> WELL, UNDER OBAMACARE THE
HAVE AN INCENTIVE TO KEE
PATIENTS HEALTHY BECAUSE THE LAW
CHANGE THE WAY THEY ARE PAID
UNDER THE LAW, HOSPITALS GET
PENALIZED IF YOU COME BACK T
THE EMERGENCY ROOM FOO
FREQUENTLY
AND IF A HOSPITAL ISN'T MEETIN
CERTAIN PATIENT QUALITY AN
HEALTH OUTCOMES.
AND INSURERS ARE FOLLOWING THE
SAME MOLD, TOO
INSURERS NO LONGER WANT TO PAY
FOR HOSPITALS WHO ARE JUST DOING
MORE AND MORE TESTS AN
PROCEDURES OVER AND OVER AGAIN
THEY WANT TO BE PAYING FOR
QUALITY.
SO HOSPITALS ARE GOING TO BE
HELD ACCOUNTABLE IF PATIENTS ARE
TOO SICK, IF PATIENTS ARE COMING
BACK TO THE EMERGENCY ROOM TOO
FREQUENTLY
>> WHAT ABOUT ALL OF THI
INFORMATION, AS A PATIENT, AM
OPTING IN OR OUT OF IT
IF THERE'S SOMETHING WRONG, CA
I CORRECT THE ASSUMPTION THA
THE HOSPITAL IS GOING BY
>> RIGHT NOW HOSPITALS ARE A
THE VERY EARLY STAGE OF USIN
THIS DATA.
BUT THERE'S A VERY LARGE
HOSPITAL CHAIN CALLED CAROLINA'S
HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
THEY OWN OVER 900 HOSPITALS,
NURSING HOMES, PHYSICIANS'
OFFICES THROUGHOUT NORTH AND
SOUTH CAROLINA
SO THEY'RE KIND OF ON TH
FOREFRONT OF USING THIS.
WHAT THEY HOPE TO EVENTUALLY D
IS TO ALLOW PATIENTS TO OPT OUT.
BUT ONLY TO OPT OUT OF SOME OF
IT
IF YOU'RE NOT FILLING YOUR
PRESCRIPTIONS, THE HOSPITA
FEELS THEY WANT TO KNOW, AND
THEY SHOULD BE ABLE TO KNO
THAT
IF YOU DON'T WANT THE HOSPITAL
KNOWING WHAT YOU'RE BUYING A
CVS OR AT THE GROCERY STORE, YOU
CAN HAVE AN OPTION TO OPT OUT OF
THAT
CERTAIN THINGS THEY WANT T
DEFINITELY KNOW ABOUT YO
BECAUSE THEY'RE NOW BEING HELD
ACCOUNTABLE FOR YOUR HEALTH.
>> AND BRIEFLY, THEY CANNOT US
THIS TO DISCRIMINATE AGAINST A
PRE-EXISTING CONDITION EVEN IF
THE INFORMATION TELLS THEM THA
YOU MIGHT HAVE A HEART
CONDITION, RIGHT
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THERE'S A LOT OF THING THAT'
ILLEGAL FOR HOSPITALS TO DID
AND IT'S BOUND BY THE SAME
PRIVACY RULES AS ANYTHING ELSE
THAT YOU WOULD SHARE WITH YOUR
DOCTOR
>> SHANNON, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
>>> THIS IS PBS "NEWSHOU
WEEKEND SUNDAY."
>>> IN ENGLAND, SCIENTISTS ARE
EXPLORING WAYS TO DIAGNOSE
BREAST CANCER THROUGH A ROUTIN
TEST RESEMBLING A PAP SMEAR.
IT MIGHT BE ONLY A FEW YEARS
AWAY
ITN REPORTS.
>> Reporter: JUDY STEWART WA
DIAGNOSED WITH BREAST CANCER
THREE YEARS AGO.
SHE'S HAD A SERIES OF TREATMENTS
-- CHEMOTHERAPY, RAID RA
THERAPY, AND MORE.
FORTUNATELY IT'S BEHIND HER.
JULIET NEVER HAD AN INDICATION
SHE COULD BE AT RISK
NEITHER HER MOTHER NOR HER
GRANDMOTHER HAD BREAST CANCER.
>> I STILL FEEL UNCOMFORTABL
WEARING BRAS UNDER MY ARM.
AFTER CHRISTMAS I GOT A BIT OF A
LUMP, TINY LUMP, BUT I WAS ILL
I HAD A COLD, A COUGH, VERY BA
HACKING COUGH.
I THOUGHT IT WAS A GLAND
DIDN'T CROSS MY MIND IT WA
CANCER
>> Reporter: MOST SCREENING IS
FOCUSED ON WOMEN UNLIKE JULIET
WHO DO HAVE A FAMILY HISTORY O
BREAST CANCER.
NOW SCIENTISTS ARE IN THE EARL
STAGES OF CREATING A NEW TES
WHICH COULD BE APPLIED TO AL
WOMEN.
ONLY 10% OF WOMEN WITH BREAS
CANCER DEVELOP IT AS A RESULT OF
AN INHERITED FAULTY GENE -- GENE
KNOWN AS BRCA 1 OR 2
THAT LEAVES WOMEN DEVELOPING
BREAST CANCER WITH NO FAMILY
HISTORY WHATSOEVER
THAT'S WHY THE RESEARCH COULD BE
A GAMECHANGER.
USING BLOOD SAMPLES, SCIENTIST
AT UNIVERSITY COLLEGE LONDON
IDENTIFIED A SPECIFIC FAULT IN
WHITE BLOOD CELLS.
THIS WAS PRESENT IN ALL WOME
WHO DEVELOPED BREAST CANCE
REGARDLESS OF FAMILY HISTORY
THE SAME TO DEVELOP THE TEST
FURTHER.
AND THEY HOPE THAT WITHIN FIVE
YEARS AN ORDINARIER SOME TES
COULD ALSO BE USED TO PREDIC
YOUR RISK OF BREAST CANCER
IT'S AN EXCITING DEVELOPMENT FOR
THOSE WHO WORK IN CANCER
RESEARCH
BUT WITH CLINICAL TRIALS YET T
BEGIN, IT'S VERY EARLY DAYS.
SO IN THE MEANTIME, WOMEN AR
URGED TO CONTINUE TO BE CAUTIOUS
AS ONE IN EIGHT OF US WILL B
AFFECTED
>>> LATE NEWS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA WILL NAME BO
McDONALD, THE WEST POINT
GRADUATE AND FORMER CEO OF
PROCTER AND GAMBLE, TO TAKE OVER
THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS
AFFAIRS.
THE U.S. IS REPORTEDLY RUSHING
75 HELLFIRE MISSILES TO IRAQ T
HELP IRAQI GOVERNMENT TROOPS TRY
TO RECAPTURE TIKRIT.
>>> ISRAEL'S IRON DOME MISSILE
DEFENSE SYSTEM REPORTEDL
INTERCEPTED TWO ROCKETS LAUNCHED
FROM THE GAZA STRIP TODAY.
ISRAEL RETALIATED WITH AN AI
STRIKE THAT KILLED ONE
PALESTINIAN.
IN NIGERIA, ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS
ARE SUSPECTED IN ATTACKS THA
LEFT DOZENS DEAD
CHURCHGOERS WERE AMONG THE
TARGETS.
>>> AN ORGANIZATION OF CENTRAL
BANKERS IS WARNING OF AN ASSET
BUBBLE CITING A DISCONNECT
BETWEEN RISING MARKETS AND
DISAPPOINTING GLOBAL GROWTH.
>>> THANKS FOR JOINING US.